BLAS\
Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms {#blas-basic-linear-algebra-subprograms align="center"}
================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**BLAS** is a C++ library which contains the Basic Linear Algebra
Subprograms (BLAS) for level 1 (vector-vector operations), level 2
(matrix-vector operations) and level 3 (matrix-matrix operations), for
single precision real arithmetic, double precision real arithmetic,
single precision complex arithmetic, and double precision complex
arithmetic.

For the contents of the library, refer to the individual components.
This page exists primarily to explain how the unified BLAS library is
created from the pieces.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**BLAS** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/blas/blas.html) and
[a C++ version](../../cpp_src/blas/blas.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/blas/blas.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/blas/blas.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/blas/blas.html).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[BLAS0](../../cpp_src/blas0/blas0.html), a C++ library which contains
auxilliary functions for the Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS).

[BLAS1\_C](../../cpp_src/blas1_c/blas1_c.html), a C++ library which
contains basic linear algebra subprograms (BLAS) for vector-vector
operations, using single precision complex arithmetic, by Charles
Lawson, Richard Hanson, David Kincaid, Fred Krogh.

[BLAS1\_D](../../cpp_src/blas1_d/blas1_d.html), a C++ library which
contains basic linear algebra subprograms (BLAS) for vector-vector
operations, using double precision real arithmetic, by Charles Lawson,
Richard Hanson, David Kincaid, Fred Krogh.

[BLAS1\_S](../../cpp_src/blas1_s/blas1_s.html), a C++ library which
contains basic linear algebra subprograms (BLAS) for vector-vector
operations, using single precision real arithmetic, by Charles Lawson,
Richard Hanson, David Kincaid, Fred Krogh.

[BLAS1\_Z](../../cpp_src/blas1_z/blas1_z.html), a C++ library which
contains basic linear algebra subprograms (BLAS) for vector-vector
operations, using double precision complex arithmetic, by Charles
Lawson, Richard Hanson, David Kincaid, Fred Krogh.

[BLAS2](../../cpp_src/blas2/blas2.html), a C++ library which contains
basic linear algebra subprograms (BLAS) for matrix-vector operations;

[BLAS3](../../cpp_src/blas3/blas3.html), a C++ library which contains
basic linear algebra subprograms (BLAS) for matrix-matrix operations;

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Charles Lawson, Richard Hanson, David Kincaid, Fred Krogh,\
    Algorithm 539: Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms for Fortran Usage,\
    ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software,\
    Volume 5, Number 3, September 1979, pages 308-323.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 03 April 2014.*
